Which of the following characteristics would not necessarily suggest that a rock we found is a meteorite. A: It has a fusion crust B: It contains solidified spherical droplets C: It is highly processed D: It has different elemental composition than earth C
Which is not a similarity between Saturn and Jupiter's atmospheres? A: a composition dominated by hydrogen and helium B: the presence of belts zones and storms C: an equatorial wind speed of more than 900 miles per hour D: significant "shear" between bands of circulation at different latitudes C
Jupiter's orbital distance is roughly 5 AU. How many times brighter would the Sun have to be for Europa to receive the same solar flux that we currently receive on Earth (1380W/m2)? A: 100 times brighter B: 25 times brighter C: 2 times brighter D: 50 times brighter B
The Pleiades is an open star cluster that plays a role in many ancient stories and is well-known for containing ... bright stars. A: 5 B: 7 C: 9 D: 12 B
The nebular theory of the formation of the solar system successfully predicts all but one of the following. Which one does the theory not predict? A: Planets orbit around the Sun in nearly circular orbits in a flattened disk. B: the equal number of terrestrial and jovian planets C: the craters on the Moon D: asteroids Kuiper-belt comets and the Oort cloud B
Where is the crater from the impact that is believed to be responsible for the mass extinction of dinosaurs 65 million years ago? A: Tunguska Siberia. B: Chicxulub Crater Yucatan Peninsula in Mexico. C: Quebec Canada. D: Meteor Crater in Arizona. B
In addition to the conditions required for any solar eclipse what must also be true in order for you to observe a total solar eclipse? A: The Earth must lie completely within the Moon's penumbra. B: The Moon's penumbra must touch the area where you are located. C: The Earth must be near aphelion in its orbit of the Sun. D: The Moon's umbra must touch the area where you are located. D
What effect or effects would be most significant if the Moon's orbital plane were exactly the same as the ecliptic plane? A: Solar eclipses would be much rarer. B: Solar eclipses would last much longer. C: Solar eclipses would be much more frequent. D: Solar eclipses would not last as long. C
What type of radiation causes a black hole to evaporate over time? A: Schwarzschild radiation B: Planck radiation C: Kolmogorov radiation D: Hawking radiation D
Approximately how far away is the Andromeda Galaxy? A: 1.7 million light years B: 2.1 million light years C: 2.5 million light years D: 3.2 million light years C
Our current best observations show that Pluto has A: one medium sized satellite and two small satellites. B: no satellites. C: one large satellite and three small satellites. D: one large satellite. A
Pluto's extremely cold (~40 K) surface is composed of: A: mainly water ice which always remains frozen B: nitrogen methane and carbon monoxide ices which sublimate into an atmosphere near perihelion C: nitrogen methane and carbon monoxide ices which always remain frozen D: roughly half ices and half rocky materials B
How do scientists know that the majority of meteorites come from the asteroid belt? A: The spectra of some meteorites are similar to the spectra of asteroids in the asteroid belt. B: The asteroid belt is the only possible source of meteorites therefore they must originate there. C: Collisions are common in the asteroid belt and we can track the fragments from their source asteroid to the Earth where they become meteorites. D: High levels of Iridum have been detected in both asteroids and meteorites therefore meteorites come from the asteroid belt. A
Which factor s most important in determining the history of volanism and tectonism on a planet? A: size of the planet B: presence of an atmosphere C: distance from the sun D: rotation period A
The astronomical unit parsec (pc) plays a crucial role in astronomy. One parsec is equal to about 3.26 light-years. How is one parsec defined in astronomy? A: Distance at which one astronomical unit measures one arcsecond from Earth. B: Orbital distance of the solar system around the center of the Milky Way in one year. C: Effective distance of the solar wind (i.e. the radius of the heliosphere). D: Historical distance to the brightest star Sirius. A
The term Schwarzschild radius usually describes properties of ... A: red dwarfs. B: pulsars. C: black holes. D: galaxies. C
Moons cause/contribute to which of the following? A: stability of particles within rings. B: gravitational effects at ring edges as the moons pass by. C: gaps between rings. D: Moons contribute to all of the above. D
The belts and zones of Jupiter are A: names for the layers of gaseous and metallic hydrogen deep within the planet. B: alternating bands of rising and falling air at different latitudes. C: alternating regions of charged particles in Jupiter's magnetic field. D: regions of the plasma torus created by ions from Io's volcanoes B
The two moons of Mars are called ... A: Tritos and Desmos B: Tritos and Deimos C: Phobos and Tritos D: Phobos and Deimos D
The visible part of the electromagnetic spectrum is between ... A: 240 to 680 nm. B: 360 to 620 nm. C: 380 to 740 nm. D: 420 to 810 nm. C
What is true about the rotation of a solid disk? A: The velocity is the same on every point on the disk B: The part closer to the axis has a longer period C: The period of rotation is the same on every point on the disk D: The part closer to the axis has a shorter period C
The famous Drake equation attempts to answer the following question: A: Will the Sun become a black hole? B: Is the universe infinitely large? C: How old is the visible universe? D: Are we alone in the universe? D
20000 years from now ... A: The Moon will be closer to the Earth and the Earth’s day will be longer. B: The Moon will be closer to the Earth and the Earth’s day will be shorter. C: The Moon will be further from the Earth and the Earth’s day will be longer. D: The Moon will be further from the Earth and the Earth’s day will be shorter. C
What element is most common among the Jovian Planets? A: Hydrogen B: Helium C: Carbon D: Oxygen A
Imagine that the Earth was instantly moved to an orbit three times further away from the Sun. How much longer would a year be? A: exactly 3 times longer B: about 5.2 times longer C: Not enough information. It will depend on the inclination of the new orbit D: The length of the year wouldn't change because the Earth's mass stays the same. B
Why can't we see the Sun's corona except during total solar eclipses? A: The corona is made up mostly of charged particles which aren't luminous. B: It's much too cool to emit visible light C: We can't see magnetic fields D: It's too diffuse D
How do we think the "hot Jupiters" around other stars were formed? A: They where formed when their stars flung material out into the system in a process similar to planetary fission. B: They formed as gas giants beyond the frost line and then migrated inwards. C: They formed as dense rocky planets close to the star in the same orbits that they are seen today. D: They formed as gas giants close to the star in the same orbits that they are seen today. B
The resolution of a telescope is a measure of its: A: Ability to magnify distant objects B: Ability to measure the angular separation of objects C: Ability to measure the distance between objects D: Light-collecting efficiency B
The axis of the Earth is tilted at an angle of approximately ... relative to the orbital plane around the Sun. A: 20.3 degrees B: 21.4 degrees C: 22.7 degrees D: 23.5 degrees D
What is the source of the material that causes meteor showers? A: Asteroid impacts elsewhere in the solar system throw sand-sized particles into space and occasionally the Earth passes through a cloud of these particles which burn up in our atmosphere and cause a meteor shower. B: Near-Earth asteroids gradually disintegrate and spread out along their orbital paths. When the Earth passes through the orbit of an asteroid we are bombarded by sand-sized particles that cause a meteor shower. C: Near-Earth asteroids disintegrate as they enter Earth's atmosphere creating hundreds of bright meteors that appear to radiate from a single location in the sky. D: The nuclei of comets gradually disintegrate and spread out along their orbital paths. When the Earth passes through the orbit of an comet we are bombarded by sand-sized particles that cause a meteor shower. D
